#summary How to build indic-keyboards from source
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy

As indicated on the SystemRequirements wiki page, all the necessary tools have to be installed to build indic-keyboards from source.

Check out the source from the web repository. Steps to checkout can be found [http://code.google.com/p/indic-keyboards/source/checkout here].
---------------
== How to build (Linux) ==

Assuming all the necessary tools are present, browse to the directory _indic-keyboards_.
Now, the building is architecture specific. That is, if a 32-bit version of JDK has been installed, please use *build-linux-x86.xml* build file. If the JDK is a 64-bit version, *build-linux-x86_64.xml* has to be used.

<u>Steps</u>

1.  Browse to the directory _indic-keyboards_.
<p>
2.  Place the Eclipse SWT JAR package in the same folder. The version which has been used is 3.4. Higher versions can also be used. 
<p>
3.  Run the following : 
{{{
ant -f build_filename.xml build -Dswt=the_swt_filename.jar
}}}
For example,
{{{
ant -f build-linux-x86.xml build -Dswt=swt-swt-3.4-gtk-linux-x86.jar
}}}
After executing this, a file *libIndicKeyboards-x86.so.1.0* or *libIndicKeyboards-x86_64.so.1.0* will be created.
<p>
4.  Create the executable JAR by running the following 
{{{
ant -f build_filename.xml jar -Dswt=the_swt_filename.jar
}}}
A new directory called *dist* will be created which will contain the complete package to run indic-keyboards.

*NOTE* : To clean, run the following :
{{{
ant -f build_filename.xml clean
}}}
The clean target will remove the _dist_ folder along with other intermediate files.

-----------

== How to build (Windows) ==

Microsoft Visual C++ is a *must*. It can be obtained from the link provided in the SystemRequirements wiki page.

To install Apache Ant, follow the steps described in the installation section of the manual [http://ant.apache.org/manual/index.html here]

Assuming that everything has been properly set up, follow these steps :

<u>Steps</u>

1. Open Microsoft Windows Command Prompt which is packaged with Microsoft Visual C++.
<p>
2. Browse to the directory which contains the source.
<p>
3.  Run the following : 
{{{
ant -f build_filename.xml build -Dswt=the_swt_filename.jar
}}}
For example,
{{{
ant -f build-win32-x86.xml build -Dswt=swt-3.4-win32-win32-x86.jar
}}}
After executing this, two files *indic-keyboards-syshook.dll* and *indic-keyboards-opChars.dll* will be created.
<p>
4.  Create the executable JAR by running the following 
{{{
ant -f build_filename.xml jar -Dswt=the_swt_filename.jar
}}}
A new directory called *dist* will be created which will contain the complete package to run indic-keyboards.

----------

*NOTE* :
  # Experts can modify the build script to their liking. This needs expertise with Apache Ant's working. 
  # Other build targets can be listed using
{{{
ant -f build_filename.xml -p
}}}